Recursive paths (#1004)
surrealdb/docs.surrealdb.com: src/content/doc-surrealql/datamodel/idioms.mdx

This idiom selects all elements in the `score` array.

#### Using `.*` to return values

The `.*` idiom in SurrealDB allows you to target all values in an object or all entries in an array. It can be used in various contexts such as querying, field definitions, and data manipulation. This section explains the behavior of `.*` with practical examples.

#### Accessing All Values in an Object

When applied to an object, `.*` returns an array containing all the values of the object's properties.

```surql

> SELECT * FROM { a: 1, b: 2 }.*;

Reviewer: That doesn't work, it should be
```
{ a: 1, b: 2 }.*;
```

> SELECT * FROM { a: 1, b: 2 }.*;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 { a: 1, b: 2 }.*;
```

Here are some more simple examples of recursive queries and notes on the output they generate.

```surql
-- Any depth
person:tobie.{..}(->knows->person).name;

-- Minimum 2, maximum 6 iterations of recursion (or either)
person:tobie.{2..6}(->knows->person).name;
person:tobie.{2..}(->knows->person).name;
person:tobie.{..6}(->knows->person).name;

-- Generate complex recursive tree structures:
-- Fetches connections up to 3 levels deep, 
-- collecting their name, id, and connections along the way
-- 3 levels, because the first iteration is used to collect
-- the details for person:tobie
person:tobie.{..4}.{ id, name, connections: ->knows->person.@ };

-- @ is a shortcut to the current document, and acts as a shorthand to start an idiom path.
-- The "." can optionally be omitted
SELECT @{1..4}(->knows->person).name AS names_2nds FROM person

-- Recursive idioms work with any idiom parts, not limited to graphs
-- Here, we recursively fetch friends and then collect their names
person:tobie.{1..5}(.friend).name
```

#### Behaviour of recursive queries

Recursive queries follow a few rules to determine how far to traverse and what to return. They are:

> * NONE, NULL, and arrays which are empty or contain only NONE/NULL are considered a dead end.
> * An iteration with the same value as the previous one is also considered a dead end.
> * If a query does not reach the minimum depth, it returns NONE.
> * If it does reach the minimum depth, it returns the last valid value.
> * During each iteration, all dead end values and paths are automatically filtered out whenever an array is encountered.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `NONE`, `NULL`, and arrays which are empty or contain only `NONE` and/or `NULL` are considered a dead end.
* An iteration with the same value as the previous one is also considered a dead end.
* If an iteration with a dead end does not reach the minimum depth, it returns `NONE`.
* If we already passed the minimum depth, it returns the last valid value.
* During each iteration, if we encounter an array value, all dead end values are automatically filtered out, ensuring no empty paths are included.
```

			city:houston,
			city:los_angeles,
			city:san_francisco
		],
		countries: [
			country:canada,
			country:us
		],
		state_provinces: [
			province:ontario,
			province:bc,
			state:texas,
			state:california
		]
	}
]
```

#### Basics of recursive paths

Using a recursive path allows you to instead set the number of steps to follow instead of manually typing. A recursive path is made by isolating `{}` braces in between two dots, inside which the number of steps is indicated.

```surql
-- Two steps down the record links at the `next` field
planet:earth.{2}.next;
-- Two steps down the `has` graph relation
planet:earth.{2}->has->(?);
```

```surql title="Output"
[
	state:california,
	state:texas,
	province:ontario,
	province:bc
]
```

The number of steps can be any integer from 1 to 256.

```surql
-- 'Found 0 for bound but expected at least 1.'
planet:earth.{0}->has->(?);
-- 'Found 500 for bound but expected 256 at most.'
planet:earth.{500}->has->(?);
```

A range can be inserted into the braces to indicate a desired minimum and maximum depth. 

```surql
-- Returns [] because no 4th-level relations exist
planet:earth.{4}->has->(?);
-- Returns `city` records located at depth 3

> planet:earth.{1..4}->has->(?);

Reviewer: I know it's only a PR for the documentation but it should support all ranges syntax like `planet:earth.{1..=4}->has->(?);` as well. It doesn't at the moment so the documentation is right but I wanted to add it.

Reviewer: @Ekwuno @Dhghomon taken into account too ? 👆

-- Will now call `.{1..3}(has->(?))` on every planet record it finds
SELECT @.{1..3}(->has->(?)) AS cities FROM planet;
-- Will now call `.len()` on every `name` field it finds
SELECT name.len()           AS length FROM planet;
```

#### Using `@` and `{}` to combine results

The `@` symbol can also be used to refer to the current record when setting the structure of a recursive graph query. This allows not just the fields on the final depth of the query to be returned, but each one along the way as well.

```surql
planet:earth
	.{1..2}
	.{
		name, 
		id,
-- Query with ->has->(?) on the current record
		contains: ->has->(?).@
	};
```

```surql title="Output"
{
	contains: [
		{
			contains: [
				province:ontario,
				province:bc
			],
			id: country:canada,
			name: 'canada'
		},
		{
			contains: [
				state:texas,
				state:california
			],
			id: country:us,
			name: 'us'
		}
	],
	id: planet:earth,
	name: 'earth'
}
```

Using `.@` in this way will return the fields for a depth of up to three levels.

Here are some more simple examples of recursive queries and notes on the output they generate.

```surql
-- Any depth
person:tobie.{..}(->knows->person).name;

> -- Minimum 2, maximum 6 iterations of recursion (or either)

Reviewer: The maximum here is 5 iterations and not 6.
